"Attacks kill 15 in Iraq as country battles IS," The Associated Press, December 10, 2014.
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/ap/article-2868278/Suicide-bomber-tanker-truck-kills-8-Iraq.html
Attacks kill 15 in Iraq as country battles IS | Daily Mail Online
 A series of attacks in and near Baghdad on Wednesday, including one involving a suicide bomber driving a tanker truck, killed at least 15 people, Iraqi officials said. In the tanker bombing, the suicide attacker targeted a security checkpoint in the village of Mikeshifa near the city of Samarra, about 95 kilometers (60 miles) north of Baghdad. Nine Iraqi soldiers and Shiite militiamen aligned with government forces in the battle against the Islamic State group were killed in that attack, police officials said. The explosion also wounded at least 22 people. U.S. Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, left, meets with Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, in Baghdad, Iraq, Tuesday, Dec. 9, 2014. Hagel, who flew to Baghdad to get a first-hand report on progress against the Islamic State militants, held a series of meetings with top Iraqi government officials and conferred with American military commanders. Al-Abadi told Hagel on Tuesday that his army is taking the offensive against the Islamic State group but needs more air power and heavy weaponry to prevail. (AP Photo/Mark Wilson, Pool) No one immediately claimed responsibility for the bombing but Samarra and its surrounding areas have been under constant attacks by the Islamic State group, which captured large swaths of western and northern Iraq in a summer blitz. The militant group's onslaught has become Iraq's worst crisis since the 2011 withdrawal of U.S. troops. Also Wednesday, a bomb struck near an outdoor market in the town of Madain, just south of Baghdad, killing three people and wounding five. And a bomb explosion in a commercial street in southern Baghdad killed two people and wounded seven. Later in the day, a roadside bomb hit an army patrol in Baghdad's western suburb of Abu Ghraib, killing one soldier and wounding six. Medics in nearby hospitals confirmed the casualties from the attacks. All officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to talk to media. The attacks came as visiting U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel offered assurances that Washington is committed to helping Iraq regain the territory it lost to the Islamic State group, and emphasized the importance of building a durable international coalition to combat the extremists. 
