"Iraq: Security Roundup 1200 GMT 1 January 2015," OSC Summary, January 1, 2015.
http://www.news.com.au/world/australian-media-excluded-from-accompanying-the-prime-minister-on-his-first-visit-to-iraq/story-fndir2ev-1227175181802
Tony Abbott in Iraq: How Australian media were left out
TONY ABBOTT has left the door open to boosting Australia’s commitment to “knock off” ISIS in Iraq, but has refused to allow the media to scrutinise his first visit to the country. The Prime Minister excluded Australian media from his secret trip to Baghdad on the advice of diplomats. A News Corp Australia photographer and pool TV crew travelled to Dubai on Saturday to link up with Mr Abbott’s program, starting on Sunday. They only found out he had headed to Iraq after wire reports and images emerged from Mr Abbott’s meeting with his counterpart Haider al-Abadi. “No Australian media was allowed to cover the [Baghdad] visit,” Mr Abbott’s spokeswoman said. The travelling media representatives were not told about the Iraq leg of the trip due to what the Prime Minister’s staff said was a “heightened security risk” in Baghdad and the fact that he was travelling outside the international or ‘green’ zone. “No media are allowed outside the international zone in Baghdad,’’ the spokeswoman said. After a meeting with the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi in Dubai, Mr Abbott did not rule out increasing Australia’s commitment in Iraq. “I certainly don’t rule out doing what we reasonably can to make the world a safer place,” he said. Australia has already sent a group of special forces troops to assist in training members of the Iraqi army - as well as deploying super hornets. “We are here, in the Middle East, to stop the fight coming to Australia,” the Prime Minister said. “Because the ISIL or Daesh death cult has declared war on the world, including here and Australia.” PM’S IRAQ VISIT: What happened in Baghdad Abbott spoke with FA18 pilots on their return from an operational mission over Iraq. Picture: Gary Ramage Source: News Corp Australia Abbott visited Royal Australian Air Force personnel based in the Middle East along with Air Chief Marshal Mark Binskin, AC, Chief of the Defence Force and the new Minister for Defence Kevin Andrews. Picture: Gary Ramage Source: News Corp Australia According to the spokeswoman the travelling media were only there to cover the two days of official events in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) that began on Monday with a meeting with the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. Acting Opposition Leader Tony Burke said the government’s secretive approach was “not in the national interest”. “This government, from the moment they came in, have adopted a culture of secrecy and I don’t think it’s helpful, I don’t think it’s smart and I don’t think it’s fair to the Australian people,” he said. During his first visit, Mr Abbott held talks with the Iraqi Prime Minister about what he described as “an important struggle” against IS. “We are determined to deepen our cooperation with the government and the people of Iraq in the weeks and months to come: not because we are a country which goes forward seeking foreign fights, but because where our vital national interests are threatened, where universal values are at stake, Australia should be a strong partner,” the Prime Minister said. Abbott and new Minister for Defence Kevin Andrews speak with an FA18 pilot. Picture: Gary Ramage Source: News Corp Australia One of two FA18 Super Hornets arrived back from an operational mission over Iraq during the PM’s visit. Picture: Gary Ramage Source: News Corp Australia He used the opportunity to thank “very, very much” Australian troops, currently fighting IS militants in the country. “I think every Australian is proud of you and your work,” he told them. “People will always argue with the policy of the Government of the day but I don’t think any fair dinkum Australian questions the commitment, the professionalism, the courage of our armed forces and everyone wants you to help the Iraqis to knock off ISIL.” Mr Abbott pledged a further $5 million in humanitarian assistance to help provide food for approximately 350,000 people over the next month. It takes Australia’s overall contribution, since last June, to $22 million. Jacqui Lambie criticised Mr Abbott for making his trip to Baghdad, when he won’t offer troops a pay rise. Prime Minister Tony Abbott's official welcome by the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi at the Al Mushrif Palace. Picture: Office of the Prime Minister. Source: News Corp Australia The PM and the Crown Prince at Al Mushrif Palace. Picture: Office of the Prime Minister. Source: News Corp Australia “It’s clearly a trip designed to boost his political ratings, rather than our troops’ morale,” she said. The Independent Senator, who has refused to back any government legislation until an effective pay cut for ADF personnel — the 1.5 per cent being offered is below the rate of inflation — is reversed, urged Mr Abbott to pull troops out. “Then grant all members of the ADF a fair pay rise (which at least keeps track with inflation) by using the money saved on a now futile military contribution."
